


























Overview
Electronic email is pervasively used in almost all industry verticals and is often the primary communication and awareness method within an organization. At the same time, misuse of email can post many legal, privacy and security risks, thus it’s important for users to understand the appropriate use of electronic communications. 
Purpose
The purpose of this email policy is to ensure the proper use of Xtracap email system and make users aware of what the  deems as acceptable and unacceptable use of its email system. This policy outlines the minimum requirements for use of email within the company network. 
Scope
This policy covers appropriate use of any email sent from email address and applies to all employees, vendors, and agents operating on behalf of .

Policy
All use of email must be consistent with the policies and procedures of ethical conduct set, safety, compliance with applicable laws and proper business practices set forth by Xtracap. 
Xtracap email account should be used primarily for the company’s business-related purposes; personal communication is permitted on a limited basis, but non-company   related commercial uses are prohibited.
Email should be retained only if it qualifies as a Xtracap business record. Email is a Xtracap business record if there exists a legitimate and ongoing business reason to preserve the information contained in the email.
The Xtracap email system shall not to be used for the creation or distribution of any disruptive or offensive messages, including offensive comments about race, gender, hair color, disabilities, age, sexual orientation, pornography, religious beliefs and practice, political beliefs, or national origin. Employees who receive any emails with this content from any Xtracap employee should report the matter to their supervisor immediately.
Users are prohibited from automatically forwarding Xtracap email to a  email system (noted in 4.8 below).  Individual messages which are forwarded by the user must not contain Xtracap confidential or above information. 
Users are prohibited from using third-party email systems and storage servers such as Google, Yahoo, and MSN Hotmail etc. to conduct Xtracap business, to create or memorialize any binding transactions, or to store or retain email on behalf of Xtracap.  Such communications and transactions should be conducted through proper channels using Xtracap - approved documentation. 
Using a reasonable amount of Xtracap resources for personal emails is acceptable, but non- email shall be saved in a separate folder from work related email.  Sending chain letters or joke emails from a Xtracap email account is prohibited.  
Xtracap employees shall have no expectation of privacy in anything they store, send or receive on the company’s email system. 
Xtracap may monitor messages without prior notice. Xtrcap is not obliged to monitor email messages.

Policy Compliance
Compliance Measurement
The IT Infra will verify compliance to this policy through various methods, including but not limited to, periodic walkth, video monitoring, business tool reports, internal and external audits, and feedback to the policy owner. 
Exceptions
Any exception to the policy must be approved by the Infosec team in advance. 
Non-Compliance
An employee found to have violated this policy may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. 