









Employee Guidelines

Xtracap Fintech India Pvt. Ltd.






TABLE OF CONTENTS



SECTION ONE

APPLICABILITY-WHO IS COVERED

This Guide applies to all employees on the payrolls of the Company to provide them information about the Company and its people-related policies and procedures. It is a supplement to the information contained in your offer of employment, your employment contract and the information given to you at your induction. This guide will be updated as new policies and procedures are introduced.

SECTION TWO

EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES


Employee Orientation

An induction briefing is organized by HR on the day of joining of the employee to cover administrative support, facilities and  list  of  documentation  to  be  completed for personnel record.

Personal data/ Record – use of

Personal data is held for the administration of prospective, current and past employees including, where applicable, self employed or contract personnel, seconded, temporary staff or voluntary workers. This data is held in both computerized and manual formats.

This data may be used for the following typical activities: recruitment; recording of working time; administration and payment of salaries; pensions and other benefits; employee assessment and training; negotiation or communication with employees; career planning; compliance with Company policy / and or legislation in relation to health, safety and other employment matters; analysis for management purposes and statutory returns.

The Company believes that personal files are of generally of a private nature and therefore attempts to limit the access to respective Line Managers, to the HR, operational/ administrative management of the Company and to those officials and individuals with a legitimate need for access to such personnel files in order to conduct Company business. Requests to review personal files should be directed to HR.

The Employee should report to the HR and Admin if there is any change in his/ her name, telephone number, address or emergency  contact  number  information relevant to benefits in  writing.  Any  updates  on  employee qualifications/certifications etc. should also be informed to HR for the purpose of personnel record updates.

General Terms and Conditions of Employment

Your terms and conditions of employment are specified in your offer letter and contract of employment. These may change from time to time  and  you  will  be notified of the same by way of a letter to you individually (e.g. a salary increase) or by way of a notice to all staff (e.g. introduction of paternity  leave  across  the Company).

The purpose of this section is to cover some of the  key  questions  you  may  have about Xtracap terms and conditions.

Probationary Policy

The company employs all new employees on an initial probationary period.  This can be extended if the manager has concerns about  the  employee’s  ability  to  fulfil his/her role. Any extension can take the probationary period up to a maximum of 9 months only.

General terms and conditions of employment during the probationary period

During the probationary period the following provisions, as detailed in the company’s employment contracts, will apply to all new starters:

No entitlement of paid leave during the period

No company sick pay entitlement. However, statutory sick pay will be payable in accordance with statutory eligibility requirements.

Individuals will not be included in the company’s annual pay review whilst in their probationary periods.

Appraisal and Development

There is a periodical formal process for appraising your performance and planning your job and career development within the Company. The Company believes it is important to provide guidance and feedback to you regarding your performance. Your Supervisor will discuss this with you. These evaluations are significant to the Company and often play a major role in personnel decisions relating to promotions, transfers, demotions, discipline, and discharge.

You will not be eligible for a pay review completion  of  minimum  12  months  on board & have been confirmed on the company services.

Training Policy

Training/Development  needs  which  are  required  for  your  job,  or  to  progress  your career (as identified through the Appraisal and Development process) may be delivered by the Company in several ways through external training courses.

Transfers and Assignments

In response to any internal posting, an Employee desiring to be transferred or reassigned to a different position within the Company may contact his/her Line Manager and identify the position to which he or she would like to transfer or be reassigned and the reasons for requesting the transfer or reassignment. The Company however retains the sole discretion to demote, transfer or reassign Employees, as it deems reasonable and/or necessary regardless of whether the Employee has consented to or requested the demotion, transfer or reassignment.


SECTION THREE


COMPENSATION, WORKING HOURS, AND ATTENDANCE


Salary

The Company determines the wages and salaries to be paid to each Employee by considering the duties, responsibilities and skills necessary to the position held by the Employee as well as the needs and financial condition of the Company and the particular qualifications and abilities of the individual.

Your salary is paid directly into your bank account by a transfer system.

Your salaries are your personal information and hence all employees are expected to treat their individual salaries as private & completely confidential. This can only be discussed with your immediate manager or with HR. Any breach of confidential information will be treated strictly by the management.

Salary components

Finance will guide all employees on the components of your salary structure during your induction & otherwise from time to time. Any questions related to the structure may be directly raised to Finance or HR.

Hours of work

According to your shifts timing you have to complete 9 hours, Monday to Friday and Saturday as per the need of the business with a break of one hour for lunch.

Leavers/ Resignations

Information about the leavers will be immediately forwarded to HR for updation of records and clearance of the employee. Also, the Infrastructure team should be informed for deactivation of the accounts. Clearance Form available with HR & Admin will be processed by the leaver and get it completed from various branches

and handed over the same to Admin for follow up of final settlement with Account Office.

Employee leaving the company will be required to undergo an exit interview with HR.

The purpose of this is to assist the company to ascertain and analyze the reason for employee turnover.

The company shall appreciate the frank response during the exit discussion with the HR and it does not form part of the decision in future re-employment, if any.


SECTION FOUR

EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

Leave Policy
Objective
In keeping with its philosophy of having a healthy and productive work force and in compliance with statutory obligations in this regard, the company provides paid leave to all employees to enable them to take time off for sickness, rest and recreation and for undertaking personal jobs normally not possible during working days.

Scope
All employees of the Company on regular payroll are eligible.

General Notes
The year for calculating and crediting leave shall be the calendar year.
Prior approval is necessary for leave, including leave without pay. However, due to unavoidable circumstances, if prior approval cannot be obtained, this must be regularized soonest possible but not later than on the day of resuming duties.
All leave entitlement is on working days basis, except Maternity Leave, which includes holidays and weekly off days.
Eligibility
Employees will be entitled to Earned Leaves, Sick Leaves and Casual leaves during the calendar year (January to December):
After completion of 12 months of services,  employees  will  be  eligible  for Earned Leaves
The employee should be a confirmed employee
Sick leaves will be granted only after 6 months of service. Before this period all leaves will be treated as Leave Without Pay, except for Covid related sicl leave

Casual Leaves will be granted at the beginning of every year.
You shall be entitled to leave as per the Company rules. As per current policy, your casual leave entitlement in a full year will be 10 days plus 15 days earned leave.
The holiday year runs from 1st Jan – 31st December. It should be noted that leave not taken in the holiday year cannot be encashed or carried forward in to the next holiday year.
Casual leave of more than 2 days will not be sanctioned in continuation. Leave entitlement is credited to your account on accrual basis; any non-sanctioned or excess leave will cause loss of proportionate salary.
If an employee takes continuous leave which includes Saturdays & Sundays, then the entire duration is counted as a Leave Period & not just the working days.
In  addition  to  this,  you  will  also  be  entitled  to  9  bank/public  holidays.  The Company shall announce these for each calendar year. The list of holidays will take in to consideration the Government of India’s authorized holidays, State Government holidays and other social or religious interests.  At  any  point  of time the eligibility of leaves is the total leaves earned till the last completed calendar month.
Should you remain absent from work, without any reasonable explanation, for more than 5 consecutive days, it will be presumed that you are no longer interested in working for the company and have abandoned its service, thereby terminating your contract of service. In such as case, you will not be entitled to any statutory compensation.
The leave cannot be accrued and taken forward into the next year.  The employees are encouraged to take leave due in the calendar year

Leave during Probation Period

Within the first 6-month of probation period, earned leave is accrued but cannot be availed. No leave is permissible during probation and hence any leave during this period is leave without pay (LWP). Leave required for any exigency during above stated period shall be discussed and approved by the Manager. Only in case of an emergency or unavoidable circumstances, if an employee need to avail a leave during the probation period, it first need to be discussed & agreed with the manger.

Earned / Annual Leave  (EL)
Every employee who has been in continuous employment of the company for a period of 12 months shall be eligible for 15 working days annual  leave. Leaves shall be credited on a yearly basis.
Any Earned leave not availed in any year by an employee will not be carried forward to the next
Every application for earned leave shall be made in writing and in case of leave for more than three consecutive days shall ordinarily be made at least seven days before the date from which leave is required. An application for

leave for three days or less shall ordinarily be made at least twenty four hours before the date from which leave is required.
At the time of Separation, all un-utilized Earned Leaves will be encashed and
/ or may also be adjusted against shortfall in the notice period, if any.
Encashment of Earned Leaves will be done according to Gross Salary of an employee.

Sick Leave (SL)
Every employee who has been in continuous employment of the compnay for a period of six months or over shall be eligible for 15 days SL in any  one calendar year.
SL can be availed for 1 or more days at a stretch. If an employee is on sick leave for 3 or more days in continuation, a Doctor’s fitness / medial certificate in original would be required to be submitted immediately on the day of re- joining the office. In case the employee fails to provide a fitness certificate / if the certificate will be proven fake, his leaves would be treated as Earned Leave.
If an employee avails Sick leave immediately before / after Casual Leave, Earned Leave or Compensatory Leave even for one or two days, employee will have to provide Doctor’s fitness / medical certificate. If certificate is not provided by an employee, his Sick leaves will be treated as Earned Leave. On submission of fake fitness certificate, disciplinary action may be taken against that employee.
An advance credit of SL shall be given to employee, on proportionate basis, and subsequently on 1st January of each year.
When  an  employee  exhausts  his/her  SL  balance,  then  the  subsequent  SL availed will be considered as Earned Leave. In case if there are no Earned Leaves then it will be treated as Leave Without Pay.
Sick Leaves cannot be combined with Casual Leaves / Compensatory Leaves.
Sick Leave cannot be accrued, encashed or carried forward for next calendar year.
Maternity Leave

The Maternity Benefit Act of 1961 was enacted by the Government of India with the purpose of regulating the employment of Women for certain periods before and after childbirth and to provide for maternity benefit. Given below are some guidelines that will help female employees to be familiar with the process of availing the benefit she is entitled to under the Act.

Duration: Maternity Leave with full pay shall be allowed for a maximum period of 06 Months (180 days), of which not more than six weeks shall precede the date of expected delivery. No earned leave will get accrued during the entire duration of the maternity leave. Weekly holidays intervening the period of maternity leave shall be counted as part of the 12 weeks.

Conditions:   A female employee, who has availed maternity leave with full pay, shall forfeit her claim to such pay if she works in any establishment during her maternity leave.


Paternity Leave

Xtracap would like you to share your joyous moments with your family and friends when you become a father. In view of this, over and above privilege leave, you can avail fully paid Paternity Leave for three working days within one week from the date you become a father.
Paternity Leave (PL) is maximum of 3 working days. E.g. if a child’s birth occurs on Wednesday, the entitlement is Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. If birth is on Thursday, the entitlement is Thursday, Friday and Monday.

Compassionate Leave

A minimum of 2 days and a maximum of 5 days leave will be given in event of the death of an employee’s spouse or partner, or close relative i.e. Mother, Father, Brother, Sister, Son or Daughter.
The decision whether to grant the maximum number of days will be made by your Line Manager and will depend upon your individual circumstances. The days granted do not have to be taken in one continuous period, but they must be used within 4 weeks of the bereavement.
1 day’s leave will be granted in the event of the death of an employee’s Mother-in-law or Father-in- Law, Grandparents, son-in-law or daughter-in- law, Uncle, Aunt, Nephew or Niece, Sister-in-law or Brother-inlaw.

Ad-Hoc Holidays

In case of our office being closed on account of any emergency or eventuality or force majeure or otherwise, the closure would have to be compensated by extra working hours/days.

Short Leave
Short duration leave of upto 2 Hours in  a  day  will  be  marked  as  Short- Leave. Employees can take such short-leave  only  in  case  of  an  emergency and   after   approval   from   their   immediate   Supervisor/Team   Leader   or Business Head. Half day leave will be marked as soon as an employee takes 2 such short-leaves and will be adjusted from Earned Leaves.

Local Conveyance

If you use your own vehicle for official work, then you may claim reimbursement as per the table given below for more details refer to the travel reimbursement policy


SECTION FIVE

EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES POLICY AND ITS APPLICATION

Policy Statement

It is the Company’s policy to comply with all the relevant legislation relating to equality of opportunity and prevention of discrimination in employment. The Company is committed to providing equal opportunities at all stages of the employment process (e.g. recruitment and selection, internal selection and promotion, terms and conditions, termination of employment) to ALL people irrespective of their Colour, ethnic origin, gender, marital status, sexual or gender orientation, religion or beliefs, age or disability.

The Company will take very seriously any complaint of unfair treatment or harassment made by any employee.

Application of the Policy

HR monitors recruitment and selection processes to ensure non-discrimination (whether intentional or unintentional).

Internal vacancies are announced over email and are open for all employees to apply.

SECTION SIX

OTHER PERSONNEL POLICIES


Code of Ethics and Conduct

Employees are required to abide by the rules and policies set forth in the Guidelines. The code addresses issues pertaining to among other things, the use of Company property, conflicts of interest, relationship with vendors, gratuities, confidentiality and maintenance of accurate accounts and records, access to benefits, employment practices and public relations and the duty of Employee to co- operate in investigations.

Dress Code

In order to foster a more productive, comfortable and creative environment to work in, Xtracap   has implemented a casual dress policy which applies to  every working day, including Saturdays.

However, it is important that we retain a professional image and that we dress appropriately when dealing directly with customers both at Xtracap premises and on customer site. Therefore this policy explains what acceptable casual dress is and what is not.

Whilst we are not providing an exhaustive list, there is some definite exclusion i.e. T-shirts, “combat” trousers, football shirts, trainers and beach wear such as shorts. “Polo” shirts, jeans, sweatshirts and casual trousers are included. All clothes worn should be smart and, in the beginning we will leave the interpretation of “smart” up to you. Your Manager will let you know if you are not meeting the minimum requirements of the code.

How will the policy be monitored?

As with all other Xtracap policies, under your contract of employment you agree to comply with the casual dress policy. Should your attire be regarded as inappropriate by your manager, he/she will let you know and reserves the right to require you to take unpaid leave to go home and change. Continued misuse of the policy may result in the benefit of casual dress being withdrawn on either an individual or collective basis.

Disciplinary Procedure

In order to ensure efficiency and good discipline within the Company, it is essential that all employees should comply with reasonable and acceptable standards  of conduct and work performance. Disciplinary regulations are laid down with the objective of protecting the interest of the Company and the  Employees.  The employees are expected to observe all Company regulations and policies and

violation of them may result in disciplinary action. The level of disciplinary action depends on the gravity of the offense and the verdict of the Managing Director is final. The intent of disciplinary action is not to punish, but to motivate the employee to positively change his / her behaviour.

In the event of any of the following offenses having been committed, disciplinary action and/or summary dismissal may be taken, and the punishment will be in accordance with the gravity of the offense

Breach of conduct.

Theft, forgery, deception with intent for personal gains.

Activities which bring the Company into disrepute.

Receiving commissions etc. without the consent of the management.

Leaking out confidential information
.
Serious or consistent breaches of discipline.

Criminal conviction by court of law.

Willful and deliberate damage to Company property or equipment. - Gambling, fighting and stealing on the Company property or equipment.

Abusive behaviour/harassment or Indecent assault on female/male employee(s).

Habitually neglect in the duties.

Disciplinary action will normally be taken in the following progressive steps which is however not a necessary sequence subject to seriousness of the case.

Verbal Warning

An employee who has committed a minor offense on the first occasion will be verbally warned by his / her immediate supervisor. If the offense is committed on the second occasion, the verbal swarning will be administered by the Human Resources Head. If such a situation arises, the matter has already reached a stage of considerable gravity. All verbal warnings will be duly recorded on his/her personal file.

Written Warning

An employee will be given a first written warning by his / her department head if the employee still shows no signs of  improvement  despite  the  second  verbal warning administered personally by  the  HR  Head.  The  department  head  will  list the details of his / her offenses and previous warnings on the first written warning. If he / she still continues in his / her wrongful act, his / her department head will issue a final written warning to him / her with  the  ultimatum  that  one  further offense will result in summary dismissal leading to the loss of all benefits. A copy of each of the warning letters will be recorded on his /her personal file.

Summary Dismissal

The Company reserves the right to summarily dismiss an employee in case of any breach of any of the offenses. The employer shall however issue a show cause notice to you and provide an opportunity to defend yourself before deciding to terminate your services. The employees concerned will not be entitled to any payment in lieu of notice or any other benefits as listed in this handbook in case of dismissal.

Demotion

The Company may demote you  by  notice  in  writing,  including  details  of  any changes to your terms and conditions of employment arising from such demotion. In particular, the notice will give details of any reduction to your salary and/or loss of benefits and/or privileges consequent upon such demotion.

Exclusion from Bonus Schemes

The Company may exclude you from participating in any Company Bonus Scheme (as detailed in your Contract of Employment and the “Company Schemes” section of the employee guide) by notice in writing to this effect. Such notice will specify the period of your exclusion from participation in a particular bonus scheme.

Anti-Harassment Policy

The aim of this Policy is to make clear to employees what behaviour is unacceptable and the consequences; and to clarify the procedure you should follow if you are receiving unwanted behaviour.

The Company will not permit or condone the use of threatening or insulting words or behaviour or the use of threatening or insulting visual representations causing a person distress. Such behaviour may also be unlawful.
The Company will also take very seriously, any complaints from staff about unwanted behaviour of a sexual nature from other members of staff.
Employees about whom complaints of harassment are made will be dealt with under the Company’s Disciplinary Procedure. In all cases this will involve proper investigation and a Disciplinary meeting. The ranges of Disciplinary measures, which may be applied, include formal warnings, demotion and suspension. However, the Company reserves the right to dismiss if the offence is considered to be gross misconduct.
It may be necessary, whilst a complaint is being investigated, to ensure that the two employees involved are not working in the same area and the person about whom the complaint is made may be moved until the investigation is complete.

Procedure

If you receive unwanted behaviour you should report it to your Line Manager/HR. Your complaint will be dealt seriously, promptly and in confidence.

If you make a complaint, or if you have had a complaint made against you and you are dissatisfied with the treatment under this Policy, you should make your complaint in writing to your Line Manager/HR. Again, your complaint will be dealt seriously, promptly and in confidence.

Grievance Procedure

If you have any grievance relating to your employment, you should first raise it informally with your Line Manager. Wherever possible, we would prefer you to resolve things this way. If, however, you cannot resolve it informally, you should put your grievance in writing and submit it to your Manager.

Your Line Manager will discuss your grievance and will notify you of their decision in a meeting. The decision will also be confirmed to you in writing.

If his decision is not acceptable to you, you may then appeal in writing to the HR / Director, whose decision will be final and binding.


SECTION SEVEN

HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY AND PROCEDURES


Safety Rules and Practice

The Policy

Xtracap Fintech India Pvt. Ltd... has a duty to ensure  the  health,  safety  and welfare at work of all its employees, as far as is reasonably practicable. The Company will therefore comply with legislative.

All employees have a duty to take reasonable care for the health and safety at work of themselves and others who might be affected by their actions.

Arrangements to comply with the Policy.

To include Health and Safety information at Induction.
To maintain safe arrangements for the storage, handling and movement of materials.
To ensure employee safety by the maintenance of a controlled system of entry and exit throughout the building.

Safety rules and Practice

The Company is in an industry which is of low risk, but injuries and illness can happen in this environment. Please help keep accidents to a minimum by following the guidelines below: -

Ensure that electrical and telephone cables do not lie uncovered on the floor.
If you are asked to lift and carry equipment, e.g. PC’s, consider asking others for help and check conditions are safe before you act (e.g. check for wet floors).
If you routinely work with a VDU you should change your activity from time to time so that you are not looking at the screen for long uninterrupted periods. Short, frequent breaks from your work are better than long, infrequent ones.
Keep the floor free of obstructions.
Never wedge open fire doors.

Health and Safety improvements procedure

If you have a suggestion or complaint about a Health and Safety issue, please discuss it with your Line Manager.

Dangerous situation

You should inform the Admin immediately if you discover dangerous situation e.g. faulty electrical equipment.

Alcohol Policy

The aim of this Policy is to make clear the rules about drinking during work time.

Drinking alcohol on the premises is not permitted. The  exception  is  for specific Company organized events where alcohol may be served.

Drinking alcohol prior to work and off-site during work time (e.g. at lunchtime) is not permitted because of the possible effects on safety and work performance. Employees should not go to pubs at lunchtime, nor should they take clients to pubs at lunchtime. In cases where accidents or poor performance are shown to be caused by drinking alcohol, disciplinary action will be taken.

You should not drink alcohol if you are driving on Company business. Any positive breath alyzer test or accident caused by the effects of alcohol whilst on Company business will result in disciplinary action. If you wish to seek help with a problem related to alcohol, please approach the Admin team who will be able to provide you with information including the contact numbers of relevant helping organizations.

Drug Policy

The Company wants to minimize the potential damage caused to  the  health  and safety of its employees through drug abuse, and to avoid damage to the business resulting from poor performance, absence or criminal action resulting from the use of drugs.

Any employee found storing or using illegal drugs or  misusing  other substances (see below*) on the premises will  be  dismissed,  without  notice, for gross misconduct

This includes the following:-

Prescription drugs
Glues
Solvents
Cleaning fluids
Polishes

Any employee who takes illegal drugs or misuses other substances outside of work and who subsequently endangers others at work or provides sub- standard  work  caused  by  such  use/misuse  may  be  dealt  with  under  the Disciplinary Procedure. This may include dismissal, without notice, for gross misconduct. Alternatively, and depending upon the  circumstances  of  each case, the Company may offer support for counselling and treatment.

If you are taking prescription drugs as recommended by your Doctor, you should inform your Manager if your work performance or behaviour might be affected (in case you put  yourself  or others at  risk).  A temporary transfer to alternative work (e.g. working inside the office instead  of  visiting customers) may be possible.

The Admin has a list of helping organizations if you want to talk to them in confidence.

Smoking Policy

Because of concerns about the risk to health caused by passive smoking, smoking is not permitted within Xtracap offices. Anyone found smoking inside these offices would be dealt with under the Disciplinary Procedure.

If you are a smoker, taking a break to have a cigarette during normal work time must be confined to before start of work, the lunch hour, and after work.

Emergency Contact

Please make sure your Line Manager, HR and admin has the name and telephone number of the person you want to contact in case anything happens to you whilst at work.

Please provide your contact number to your line manager before you  proceed  on leave / vacation.