



















Overview
Passwords are an important aspect of computer security.  A poorly chosen password may result in unauthorized access and/or exploitation of our resources.  All staff, including contractors and vendors with access to Xtracap’s systems, are responsible for taking the appropriate steps, as outlined below, to select and secure their passwords. 

Purpose
The purpose of this policy is to establish a standard for creation of strong passwords and the protection of those passwords.

Scope
The scope of this policy includes all personnel who have or are responsible for an account (or any form of access that supports or requires a password) on any system that resides at any Xtracap facility, has access to the organization’ network, or stores any non-public information.

Policy
Password Creation
All user-level and system-level passwords must conform to the Password Construction Guidelines.
Users must use a separate, unique password for each of their work related accounts.  Users may not use any work related passwords for their own, personal accounts.
User accounts that have system-level privileges granted through group memberships or programs such as sudo must have a unique password from all other accounts held by that user to access system-level privileges.  In addition, it is highly  that some form of multi-factor authentication is used for any privileged accounts

Password Change
Passwords should be changed at least once in every 42 days.
Password cracking or guessing may be performed on yearly or random basis. If a password is guessed or cracked during one of these scans, the user will be required to change it to be in compliance with the Password Construction Guidelines.

Password Protection
Passwords must not be shared with anyone, including supervisors and coworkers. All passwords are to be treated as sensitive, confidential information. Please refer to the technical reference for additional details. 
Passwords must not be inserted into email messages, Alliance cases or other forms of electronic communication, nor revealed over the phone to anyone. 
Passwords may be stored only in “password managers” authorized by the organization.
Do not use the "Remember Password" feature of applications (for example, web browsers).
Any user suspecting that his/her password may have been compromised must report the incident and change all passwords.
Application Development
Application developers must ensure that their programs contain the following security precautions:
Applications must support authentication of individual users, not groups.
Applications must not store passwords in clear text or in any easily reversible form.
Applications must not transmit passwords in clear text over the network.
Applications must provide for some sort of role management, such that one user can take over the functions of another without having to know the other's password.

Multi-Factor Authentication
Multi-factor authentication is highly encouraged and should be used whenever possible, not only for work related accounts but personal accounts also.

Policy Compliance
Compliance Measurement
The IT Infra team will verify compliance to this policy through various methods, including but not limited to, periodic walk, video monitoring, business tool reports, internal and external audits, and feedback to the policy owner. 
Exceptions
Any exception to the policy must be approved by the IT Infra head in advance. 
Non-Compliance
An employee found to have violated this policy may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. 
Related Standards, Policies and Processes
Password Construction Guidelines
Strong passwords are long, the more characters you have the stronger the password. We recommend a minimum of 14 characters in your password.  In addition, we highly encourage the use of passphrases, passwords made up of multiple words.  Examples include “It’s time for vacation” or “block-curious-sunny-leaves”.  Passphrases are both easy to remember and type, yet meet the strength requirements.  Poor, or weak, passwords have the following characteristics: 

Contain eight characters or less.
Contain personal information such as birthdates, addresses, phone numbers, or names of family members, pets, friends, and fantasy characters.
Contain number patterns such as aaabbb, qwerty, zyxwvuts, or 123321.
Are some version of “Welcome123” “Password123” “Changeme123”

In addition, every work account should have a different, unique password. To enable users to maintain multiple passwords, we highly encourage the use of ‘password manager’ software that is authorized and provided by the organization.  Whenever possible, also enable the use of multi-factor authentication. We also recommend that each month, the system password to your machine be changed for better security.
